# An evaluation of ‘real-time’ missing data handling in machine learning and prevailing statistical models

A collaboration between UMCU and UU to work on real-time missing data methods for incomplete prediction model data of individual patients. Simulation study and paper by Steven W.J. Nijman, Hanne I. Oberman, Gerko Vink, Thomas P.A. Debray, and Maarten van Smeden.

## Abstract
The need to solve for missing values in real-time is unique to the application of prediction models. The topic of real-time imputation is underrepresented in the literature. In this study, we aim to evaluate various real-time strategies to handle the pervasive problem of missing data when using clinical data. We aim to evaluate the influence of built-in missing data handling mechanisms on prediction accuracy and compare it with existing real-time imputation methods (e.g., joint modeling imputation). We evaluate the effect of various missing data handling methods under specific missing data circumstances as would occur in medical practice.

## Repository
This Github repository contains all of the `R` code required to reproduce our simulation study. More specifically, running the file `run_simulation.R` from the folder 'Functions' would yield the results for all but one method. We used high performance computing for the method 'random forest with surrogate splits'. Results for this method can be obtained with the files `submit_hpc_simulation.sh` in combination with `run_hpc_simulation.R` from the 'Functions' folder and the list of datasets generated by running `run_simulation.R`. Subsequently, running `analyze_results.R` from the same folder will summarize the results across simulation repetitions and produce the estimates presented in the manuscript.

The repository is structured as follows:
- '**Manuscript.docx**' contains the most recent version of the paper
- '**Data**' will contain the data generated by running `run_simulation.R`
- '**Functions**' contains the simulation scripts
- '**Results**' will contain the results and estimates generated by running `analyze_results.R`
- '**Visualizations**' contains the visualization scripts 

